PWT Control
===========

This repository contains a rule-based ``eta-ctrl`` experiment for the
heat net high temperature (HNHT) -> heat net low temperature (HNLT) heat exchanger at the ETA Factory.

The experiment is intended to run against the live plant. It computes a heat
exchanger setpoint from scenario-based thermal loads and coordinates HNLT
recooling components with hysteresis logic to avoid losing the algorithm permission.

.. warning::

   This project targets a live experiment. Starting the controller connects
   to the physical system and write actuator values. Only run it when the plant
   is prepared for the experiment and the required permissions are available.

Purpose
=======

The repository packages a small but complete control experiment:

- ``pwt_control/controllers.py`` implements the rule-based controller.
- ``pwt_control/environments/pwt.py`` defines the live ``eta-ctrl`` environment.
- ``pwt_control/aae_experiment.toml`` configures the experiment run.
- ``pwt_control/environments/pwt_state_config.toml`` maps observed and controlled signals.
- ``pwt_control/scenarios/ETAFactory_HNHT_ScenarioData_LiveScenario.csv`` provides the scenario inputs used during the run.

The main objective is to operate the HNHT/HNLT heat exchanger and the
associated recooling path in a deterministic and transparent way.

Control Strategy
================

The controller performs two tasks each cycle.

1. Heat exchanger power request

   If the PWT system is in operating state ``4`` and HNHT algorithm permission
   is enabled, the controller sets
   ``HNHT_HNLT.HeatExchanger1System.RV315.setSetPoint.fSetPointAlgorithm`` to
   the negative sum of:

   - ``hex1_thermal_load``
   - ``static_heating_thermal_load``
   - ``central_machine_heating_thermal_load``

   If the plant is not in the required state, the setpoint is forced to ``0``.

2. Recooling coordination on HNLT

   The HNLT mid-buffer temperature
   ``HNLT.localState.fMidTemperature`` drives three hysteresis controllers:

   - HNLT consumers: ON at ``>= 30 degC``, OFF at ``<= 28 degC``
   - outer facade capillary tube mats (AFA): ON at ``>= 34 degC``, OFF at ``<= 29 degC``
   - high volume fly ash thermal storage (HVFA): ON at ``>= 36 degC``, OFF at ``<= 32 degC``

   This creates a staged recooling sequence:

   - Rising temperature: consumers -> AFA -> HVFA
   - Falling temperature: HVFA -> AFA -> consumers

The production mode flag is also forwarded from the scenario input to the live
system.

Repository Layout
=================

::

   pwt-control/
   |- pwt_control/
   |  |- aae_experiment.toml
   |  |- controllers.py
   |  |- main.py
   |  |- environments/
   |  |  |- pwt.py
   |  |  `- pwt_state_config.toml
   |  `- scenarios/
   |     `- ETAFactory_HNHT_ScenarioData_LiveScenario.csv
   |- pyproject.toml
   `- .gitlab-ci.yml

Setup
=====

Prerequisites
-------------

- Python ``3.11``
- Poetry ``>= 2.0``
- Access to the PTW GitLab instance hosting the ``eta-ctrl`` dependency
- Access rights for the target ETA live environment and signal endpoints

Install
-------

Sync the project environment with Poetry::

   poetry sync

Install development hooks if desired::

   poetry run pre-commit install

Experiment Configuration
========================

The live experiment is configured in ``pwt_control/aae_experiment.toml``.

Important settings:

- sampling time: ``60 s``
- configured experiment window: ``2026-01-01 00:00`` to ``2026-01-04 23:59``
- episode duration: ``259200 s`` (3 days)
- environment class: ``environments.pwt.Pwt``
- agent class: ``controllers.PwtController``
- scenario file: ``ETAFactory_HNHT_ScenarioData_LiveScenario.csv``

The signal mapping for observations and actions is defined in
``pwt_control/environments/pwt_state_config.toml``.

Running The Experiment
======================

Start the controller with:

::

   poetry run python -m pwt_control.main

This creates an ``EtaCtrl`` experiment from the package root and starts one
play run with:

- series name: ``pwt_control``
- run name: ``vergleichs_run``

Outputs
=======

After a run, the custom environment render step writes the recorded episode data
to a CSV file in the experiment results directory generated by ``eta-ctrl``.

The exported file:

- contains the logged state history for the episode
- flattens scalar numpy values before export
- uses ``;`` as separator and ``,`` as decimal mark

Notes For Operators
===================

- Verify that the live plant is in the intended operating mode before starting.
- Check that scenario values and expected signal IDs match the current ETA setup.
- Confirm that algorithm permissions on the live system are available.
- Review the hysteresis thresholds in ``pwt_control/controllers.py`` before using the controller for a new campaign.

Development
===========

Common local checks:

::

   poetry run ruff check .
   poetry run ruff format --check .
   poetry run mypy pwt_control

There are currently no repository-local tests for the control logic, so changes
should be validated carefully before use on the live system.
